BOB SCHIEFFER: Good evening from the campus
of Lynn University here in Boca Raton, Florida.
This is the fourth and last debate of the
2012 campaign, brought to you by the Commission
on Presidential Debates. This one’s on foreign
policy. I’m Bob Schieffer of CBS News. The
questions are mine, and I have not shared
them with the candidates or their aides.
The audience has taken a vow of silence — no
applause, no reaction of any kind except right
now when we welcome President Barack Obama
and Governor Mitt Romney. (Sustained cheers,
applause.) Gentlemen, your campaigns have
agreed to certain rules and they are simple.
They have asked me to divide the evening into
segments. I’ll pose a question at the beginning
of each segment. You will each have two minutes
to respond, and then we will have a general
discussion until we move to the next segment.
Tonight’s debate, as both of your know,
comes on the 50th anniversary of the night
that President Kennedy told the world that
the Soviet Union had installed nuclear missiles
in Cuba — perhaps the closest we’ve ever
come to nuclear war. And it is a sobering
reminder that every president faces at some
point an unexpected threat to our national
security from abroad. So let’s begin.
The first segment is the challenge of a changing
Middle East and the new face of terrorism.
I’m going to put this into two segments,
so you’ll have two topic questions within
this one segment on that subject. The first
question, and it concerns Libya, the controversy
over what happened there continues. Four Americans
are dead, including an American ambassador.
Questions remain. What happened? What caused
it? Was it spontaneous?
Was it an intelligence failure? Was it a policy
failure? Was there an attempt to mislead people
about what really happened?
Governor Romney, you said this was an example
of an American policy in the Middle East that
is unraveling before our very eyes. I’d
like to hear each of you give your thoughts
on that.
Governor Romney, you won the toss. You go
first.
MITT ROMNEY: Thank you, Bob, and thank you
for agreeing to moderate this debate this
evening. Thank you to Lynn University for
welcoming us here, and Mr. President, it’s
good to be with you again. We were together
at a humorous event a little earlier, and
it’s nice to maybe be funny this time not
on purpose. We’ll see what happens. (Laughter.)
This is obviously an area of great concern
to the entire world and to America in particular,
which is to see a — a complete change in
the — the — the structure and the — the
environment in the Middle East. With the Arab
Spring came a great deal of hope that there
would be a change towards more moderation
and opportunity for greater participation
on the part of women and — and public life
and in economic life in the Middle East. But
instead we’ve seen in nation after nation
a number of disturbing events. Of course,
we see in Syria 30,000 civilians having been
killed by the military there. We see in — in
— in Libya an attack apparently by — well,
I think we know now by terrorists of some
kind against — against our people there,
four people dead. Our hearts and minds go
to them. Mali has been taken over, the northern
part of Mali, by al-Qaida-type individuals.
We have in — in Egypt a Muslim Brotherhood
president.
And so what we’re seeing is a — a — a
pretty dramatic reversal in the kind of hopes
we had for that region. Of course, the greatest
threat of all is Iran, four years closer to
a nuclear weapon. And — and we’re going
to have to recognize that we have to do as
the president has done. I congratulate him
on — on taking out Osama bin Laden and going
after the leadership in al-Qaida. But we can’t
kill our way out of this mess. We’re — we’re
going to have to put in place a very comprehensive
and robust strategy to help the — the world
of Islam and — and other parts of the world
reject this radical violent extremism which
is — it’s really not on the run. It’s
certainly not hiding. This is a group that
is now involved in 10 or 12 countries, and
it presents an enormous threat to our friends,
to the world, to America long term, and we
must have a comprehensive strategy to help
reject this kind of extremism.